---
title: Avaria
---

# Avaria

Avaria is a sprawling mega-city located on the continent of Solaria, known for
its lush jungles and rugged mountains. The city is made possible by the careful
balance between druids, priests of [Melora](/pantheon/prime-deities/melora/),
and priests of [Erathis](/pantheon/prime-deities/erathis/), and is home to rich
gardens that provide fresh crops for each neighborhood. The towering
architecture is overflowing with magical hydroponics, and is protected by a
variety of powerful magic spells. The city is also a hub of commerce, with its
primary export being magical goods and components, while the most valuable goods
and services to its residents are trade and leisure. Despite its prosperity,
Avaria also has a dark side, with underground regions providing services that
the guilds have no part in. Overall, Avaria is a city filled with wonder, magic,
and a delicate balance between the divine and the mundane.

## A Typical Region

A typical region of Avaria is a marvel of architectural ingenuity and magical
design. The towering, multi-story buildings boast skywalks running between them,
creating avenues at all levels, where the residents of Avaria can move about
freely, take in the bustling energy of the city, or simply admire the beauty of
their home from a different perspective. The buildings themselves are made from
an assortment of magically enhanced materials, such as arcane glass, imbued with
protection magic to counteract the abundance of magical interference that the
city experiences.

At the surface level and below, however, is the dark side of Avaria. This region
is a literal underground, where residents live in relative squalor, providing
services that the powerful trade guilds have no part in. Despite its importance
to the functioning of the city, politicians avoid the topic of these regions, as
they are seen as a blemish on Avaria's reputation as a shining city of progress
and prosperity.

Despite this, Avaria's residents are reminded of the divine power that makes
their city possible every day. In the gardens, which feed entire residential
districts, the druids of Melora work tirelessly to maintain the delicate balance
of nature that allows for such bountiful crops. The priests of Erathis oversee
the maintenance of the city's infrastructure, ensuring that the citizens of
Avaria can enjoy their lush, productive homes with ease. And at the heart of the
city, the great monument to the cooperation of Melora and Erathis, known as the
Cathedral of the Harmonious, serves as a pilgrimage site for the faithful from
all over Gaia, who come to pay homage to the two gods who made Avaria possible.

## The Cathedral of the Harmonious

The Cathedral of the Harmonious is a magnificent structure located in the heart
of Avaria. The ancient mountain which it was built upon was once a sacred site
for the worship of the gods Melora and Erathis, who were revered for their
cooperation in maintaining the balance of nature. Over time, the mountain was
carved into a towering spire that reaches towards the sky, symbolizing the
harmony between the two gods and their followers.

The interior of the cathedral is a marvel of architectural design, with ornate
columns and arches, intricate mosaics, and towering stained glass windows that
depict scenes of Melora's creatures thriving in the wilds and Erathis' followers
building civilizations. The walls and ceilings are lined with gold and precious
gems, reflecting the light from the numerous lanterns that hang from the
rafters, creating an atmosphere of radiant beauty.

At the center of the cathedral stands the Altar of Unity, a massive stone
structure that serves as a symbol of the cooperation between the two gods.
Pilgrims from across Gaia come to offer their prayers and make offerings at the
altar, seeking blessings and guidance in their lives. The altar is surrounded by
a beautiful garden, which serves as a peaceful oasis for those who come to pay
homage to the gods.

The Cathedral of the Harmonious is a place of great spiritual significance for
the people of Avaria, and is also a major hub of religious activity within the
city. It is not just a place of worship, but a symbol of the harmonious
cooperation between the different cultures, races, and religions that make up
Avaria's diverse population. It is a testament to the belief that when different
elements work together, they can achieve great things.

## Commerce

Avaria is a city that has reached unparalleled prosperity due to its unique
combination of magic and commerce. To protect this wealth, the citizens of
Avaria have invested heavily in protection magic. Shop owners wear anti-charm
amulets to counteract the temptation of thieves, and many businesses are
equipped with powerful magical alarm systems that can alert the city's guard if
triggered. In addition, the city has a network of magical surveillance that
ensures the safety of its citizens and their goods.

However, with so much magic concentrated in one place, accidents are not
uncommon. Every day, new forms of magical smog and other anomalies arise, which
can pose a risk to the health and safety of the citizens. The city has taken
measures to mitigate these risks, including having druids on standby to clean up
any magical waste and training its guards to deal with extraplanar interference.

One of Avaria's primary exports is magical goods and services. The city is
famous for its ability to magically enhance mundane materials, such as arcane
glass that never shatters or dissipates. The city's inhabitants also have a
thriving trade in magical reagents and components, including Residuum, the most
valuable of which are highly sought after by the mages and artificers of other
lands.

In addition to magical goods, Avaria is also a hub for the trade of herbs and
spices from all across Gaia. These spices are used to enhance the flavor and
potency of the city's already bountiful crops. With so much wealth pouring into
Avaria, the trade guilds hold a great deal of political influence. They regulate
trade, setting prices and ensuring quality, and even play a role in the city's
security, hiring their own guards to protect their shipments and interests.

With agriculture being managed by druids and their magic, manual labor is not a
significant source of employment in Avaria. Instead, the city's inhabitants are
free to pursue other interests and careers. Many become artisans, crafting fine
goods that are sold both within the city and beyond its borders. Others become
scholars or adventurers, seeking to unravel the mysteries of the world and claim
their own riches and fame. Despite their varied interests, the citizens of
Avaria are united in their love of magic and their city, and they take pride in
the prosperity and safety that it provides.

### Business Chains

- The Feast of Erathis - a non-profit organization that operates a chain of food
  distribution centers, providing fresh produce from the city's gardens to the
  residents of Avaria.
- Spice Odyssey - This grocery store chain specializes in importing and selling
  exotic herbs, spices, and condiments from all over Gaia. Their shelves are
  always stocked with the freshest and most unique ingredients, and they also
  offer a selection of ready-to-eat meals made with these ingredients.
- Simple Savor - This basic restaurant chain offers hearty and affordable meals
  made with fresh ingredients sourced from local suppliers. Their menu consists
  of classic dishes with a twist, making it a popular choice for those who want
  a quick, delicious, and satisfying meal. With locations scattered throughout
  Avaria, Simple Savor is always close by when hunger strikes.
- The Celestial Bazaar - a chain of marketplaces that specializes in importing
  rare herbs and spices from other parts of Gaia.
- The Arcane Emporium - a chain of magical goods and reagents shops, known for
  their extensive selection of spell components and enchanted items.
- The Golden Compass - a chain of travel agencies that specialize in magical
  transportation and teleportation services.
- The Whispers of Melora - a chain of healing temples dedicated to the goddess
  Melora, offering medical care and spiritual guidance to the people of Avaria.
- The Radiant Forge - a chain of blacksmiths that create enchanted weapons and
  armor for the city's military and adventurer patrons.
- The Enchanter's Guild - a powerful trade guild that regulates the sale and use
  of magical items within the city, ensuring that only those with proper
  training and licenses are able to access their services.
- The Shadowed Alleys - a chain of underground businesses that operate outside
  of the reach of the trade guilds, providing less reputable services to those
  willing to pay the price.
