---
title: Solaria
---

# Solaria

Solaria, a land of lush jungles and rugged mountains, is home to the first elven
civilizations. The most notable feature of the continent is the sprawling
mega-city of [Avaria](./avaria/), made possible by a careful balance between the
druids, priests of [Melora](/pantheon/prime-deities/melora/), and priests of
[Erathis](/pantheon/prime-deities/erathis/). This city boasts towering
architecture, with rich gardens at regular intervals throughout its
neighborhoods providing bountiful, fresh crops for its residents. These gardens
are not only fertile, but are filled with magical hydroponics that allow for
crops to grow tall and abundant, feeding entire residential districts.

At the heart of Solaria lies the monument to the cooperation of Melora and
Erathis, the sacred mountain known as the [Cathedral of the
Harmonious](./avaria/#the-cathedral-of-the-harmonious). This great mountain has
been carved into a towering spire that reaches towards the sky, and is a holy
site that pilgrims from around Gaia travel to in hopes of receiving divine
blessings. Some believe that the two gods truly cooperated to create this
sprawling city, while others see it as merely a symbol of their unity.

Another geographical feature of Solaria is the Crystal Basin, a valley once
filled with towering trees and cascading waterfalls. However, over time, the
elves of Avaria have transformed it into a massive glass palace, where the high
society of the city gathers for grand balls and other festivities. The valley
has been transformed into a grand hall, where the walls and roof are made
entirely of shimmering crystal, refracting the light in a million different
directions. The trees have been replaced with rows upon rows of hanging gardens,
filled with exotic flowers, and a central pool serves as a stage for water
performances.

Solaria is a land where civilization has completely transformed the natural
landscape, and there is not a single patch of wilds left on the continent. The
cooperation between the druids, priests of Melora, and priests of Erathis has
allowed for Avaria to become a city like no other, filled with towering
architecture, rich gardens, and shimmering crystal palaces.
