---
title: Prime Deities
---

# Prime Deities

Welcome to the section of our encyclopedia dedicated to the Prime Deities of our
pantheon. These are the most popular and widely accepted deities that are
worshiped by the inhabitants of this fantasy world. However, it's important to
note that this is not an exhaustive list, and there may be other deities that
are lesser known or whose worship is frowned upon or even forbidden. This
section is intended to provide an overview of the most prominent deities among
the pantheon, their areas of influence, and their followers. Whether you're a
devout worshiper or simply interested in learning more about the world's
mythology, this section will give you a deeper understanding of the divine
powers that shape this realm.

## [Bahamut](/pantheon/prime-deities/bahamut/)

Bahamut is a deity of justice, protection, and nobility. His followers include
paladins, knights, and other champions of justice, they seek to uphold the
virtues of honor, righteousness, and valor, defend the innocent and the weak,
and bring order to chaos. They are typically lawful good in alignment, skilled
in combat and possess a deep understanding of the principles of justice and the
importance of protecting the innocent.

## [Erathis](/pantheon/prime-deities/erathis/)

Erathis is a deity of civilization, invention, and law. Her followers include
judges, kings, and other leaders, as well as anyone interested in the creation
and growth of society and the development of law. They seek to create and
maintain the conditions necessary for the growth and prosperity of society, to
promote the development of law and order, and to encourage the growth of
knowledge and the arts. They are typically lawful in alignment, committed to the
protection of the weak and the promotion of social justice, and skilled in
leadership, diplomacy, and the administration of law.

## [Melora](/pantheon/prime-deities/melora/)

Melora is a deity associated with nature, wild places, and the sea. Her
followers include rangers, druids, and sailors, and they seek to protect the
natural world from civilization and harness its power. They are typically
neutral or good in alignment, skilled in wilderness survival and navigation, and
possess a deep understanding of the natural world.

## [Sehanine](/pantheon/prime-deities/sehanine/)

Sehanine is a deity of the moon, magic, illusions, and dreams. Her followers
include bards, sorcerers, and other spellcasters, as well as those interested in
the power of dreams and illusions. They seek to master the power of the night
and imagination, create illusions, and use their abilities to protect and help
others. They are typically neutral or good in alignment, skilled in
spellcasting, illusions, and the manipulation of the mind and spirit, and have a
deep respect for the mysteries of the night and the imagination.

## [The Raven Queen](/pantheon/prime-deities/the-raven-queen/)

The Raven Queen is a deity of death, fate, and winter. Her followers include
necromancers, death knights, and those interested in the power of fate and the
afterlife, they seek to master the power of death and fate, protect the dead,
and guide the fate of others, and bring balance to the world. They are typically
neutral or lawful in alignment, skilled in necromancy, divination, and the
manipulation of fate, and possess a deep understanding of the mysteries of death
and the afterlife.
