---
title: Albion
type: Country
---

# Albion

The kingdom of Albion has a rich and storied history, with a strong tradition of
honor and military prowess. It was founded many centuries ago by a group of
half-elven warriors led by the legendary King Eledor Stormblade, who sought to
create a land where their people could live in peace and prosperity. They built
a powerful army and successfully defended the kingdom against numerous invasions
and threats over the years.

One of the most important events in Albion's history is the "Goldheart Treaty,"
where the half-elf queen, Elwynn Goldheart, arranged a pact with the fey living
in the neighboring forest, the West Weald. The treaty, while it has not led to
the cooperation and trade that was hoped for, was still monumental as it marked
the first peaceful agreement between the fey and any mortal society. It was a
historic achievement and a step forward in the relations between the two groups.

The capital city of Albion is called Arandur, located in the heart of the
kingdom. It is a grand city, with impressive architecture and a bustling market.
The city is also home to the royal palace, where the ruling monarch and their
court reside.

The military of Albion is highly respected and honored, with a strong emphasis
on discipline, training and bravery. The half-elven warriors who founded the
kingdom were skilled in both magic and swordplay, and these traditions have been
passed down through the centuries. The army is composed of both professional
soldiers and feudal levies, and is led by a powerful general appointed by the
king or queen.

Albion also has a tradition of chivalry and honor among its nobles, who are
expected to uphold the values of courage, loyalty, and justice. These values are
instilled in them from a young age and are expected to be upheld throughout
their lives.

Overall, the kingdom of Albion is a place of great beauty, tradition, and
military strength, where the half-elven ruling class has brought peace and
stability to the land. Adventurers who can gain the favor of the ruling elite
will find themselves well-rewarded, but those who challenge or defy the
kingdom's traditions will find themselves facing the full might of the
half-elven army.

## Settlements

Albion has many settlements across its lands, but most of them are small and not
notable. These settlements are typically composed of a few houses and farms, and
they are home to small communities of farmers, herders, and artisans. These
settlements do not have their own governor appointed by the monarch, instead,
they owe fealty to the nearest larger city, where the governor is appointed by
the monarch and is responsible for the administration of the area, including the
smaller settlements under his jurisdiction. The smaller settlements mostly rely
on the larger city for protection, trade and governance.

### [Arandur](./large-settlements/arandur)

The capital city of Albion, it is located in the heart of the kingdom. It is a
grand city, with impressive architecture and a bustling market. The city is also
home to the royal palace, where the ruling monarch and their court reside. It is
a major center of culture, learning and trade, and attracts many visitors from
across the kingdom and beyond.

### [Tormar](./large-settlements/tormar)

This coastal city is known for its strong naval tradition and is the primary
port of entry for trade and commerce in Albion. It is home to a large population
of sailors, merchants, and artisans. Tormar is known for its beautiful beaches
and seafront promenade, as well as its bustling fish market and delicious
seafood.

### [Eilinara](./large-settlements/eilinara)

This ancient elven city is located in the heart of the kingdom's forest and is
known for its serene beauty and peaceful atmosphere. It is a center of learning
and culture, and many of Albion's greatest scholars and artists call it home.
The city is also known for its beautiful gardens and parks, as well as its
skilled woodworkers and artisans.

### [Ravenhold](./large-settlements/ravenhold)

This fortress-city is located at the kingdom's northwestern border, at the
entrance of the "Ironclad Pass" a strategic mountain pass. It is known for its
strong military tradition and strategic importance as it guards the kingdom from
invaders. It is home to a large number of soldiers and guards, who are
responsible for protecting the kingdom from any threats that may arise. It is
known for its impressive walls and fortifications, as well as its rich history
and cultural heritage.

### [Farcorner](./other-settlements/farcorner)

This small hamlet is located at the southwest corner of the country's territory,
at the border of the West Weald. It is a quiet and peaceful place, known for its
idyllic countryside and secluded location. The people of Farcorner are mostly
farmers and herders, who live off the land and are known for their hardworking
and independent spirit. They are known to keep to themselves, but they are
welcoming to outsiders.
